---
layout: post
author: fevrier
image: "/jekyll/assets/image/metallica.jpg"
title: "Metallica"
---
Metallica is an American thrash metal band from California. Formed in Los Angeles in 1981.

The group is currently composed of two of its founding members, James Hetfield (vocals, rhythm guitar) and Lars Ulrich (drums), as well as guitarist Kirk Hammett (arrived in 1983) and bassist Robert Trujillo, who will join the group in 2003 Previous group members include Dave Mustaine (after his exclusion, founding member of Megadeth), bass players Ron McGovney (only for demos), Cliff Burton (for first three albums; died 1986) and Jason Newsted (taking the following Burton and replaced in 2003 by Trujillo). The group has long collaborated with producer Bob Rock, who produced all of their albums from 1990 to 2003 and temporarily became the group's bass player, between the departure of Newsted and the arrival of Trujillo. The group formed in the early 1980s when Hetfield went to an advertisement posted in a local newspaper by drummer Lars Ulrich.


Metallica is renowned among others for its instrumental, fast and nervous music, which places it as one of the “Big Four of Thrash” (one of the four biggest thrash metal groups) with Slayer, Megadeth and Anthrax. The group has built a reputation among underground music fans and among critics of the trade press thanks to their first four albums, of which the third, Master of Puppets (1986), is described as one of the most popular albums. influential from the heavy metal thrash scene. In 1991, the group achieved greater popularity thanks to the commercial success of their fifth eponymous album - nicknamed The Black Album - which came first in the Billboard 200 ranking when it was released. In this album, the group explores various musical paths, having the effect of attracting the attention of a wider audience.

In 2000, Metallica, along with many other groups and musicians, began legal proceedings against the music-sharing site Napster for illegally sharing their music for free without the group's consent. An agreement is finally reached and Napster becomes a paid service. During this same period, a documentary film, entitled Some Kind of Monster, tells of the recording of their album St. Anger and the tensions within the group. In 2009, the group was presented at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

Since its creation, Metallica has produced eleven studio albums, four live albums, five EPs, 25 music videos and 37 singles. The group has won nine Grammy Awards and ranked five consecutive albums directly in first place on the Billboard 200. The group's self-titled album, Metallica, has sold 16 million copies in the United States and 35 million in the making it the best-selling album since the Nielsen SoundScan era. The group ranks as one of the most profitable groups of all time, with more than 200 million records sold worldwide2,3. Metallica has also been ranked as one of the best music groups in a number of trade magazines, including Rolling Stone, which ranks it 61st in its Top 100 Best Bands of All Time2. In December 2012, Metallica was the fourth most profitable group since the start of music sales during the Soundscan era, which began on May 25, 1991, with a total of more than 53 million albums sold in the United States alone.

In 2012, Metallica founded its own independent record label, Blackened Recordings, and acquired all the rights to its albums in the studio. According to Billboard, Metallica is the 3rd largest seller of records in the United States since 1991, with 54.26 million spent - behind the country star Garth Brooks (69.52 million) and the famous group The Beatles (65.55 million). This ranking is based on the Nielsen Soundscan system, which has recorded disc sales with precision since 19914. In 2014, the Nielsen Soundscan announced that the Black Album has just set a new record. The album became the first in Soundscan history to exceed 16 million copies sold. According to the service, the Black Album is the most purchased musical work of the past thirteen years, all genres combined.