---
layout: post
author: janvier
image: "/jekyll/assets/image/maiden.jpg"
title: "Iron Maiden"
---

Iron Maiden is a British heavy metal band from London. The group was formed in December 1975 by bassist Steve Harris, joined very quickly by Dave Murray. He was among the pioneers of the new wave of British heavy metal ("the new wave of British heavy metal").

Iron Maiden is one of the biggest commercial successes in heavy metal and has sold nearly 100 million albums5,6. Their sense of melody and a certain complexity bring them closer to progressive metal.

Their longevity, their powerful and melodic compositions, the diversity of their discography and especially their quality of precursors of the genre made them one of the flagship groups of the heavy metal scene. The name of the group refers to an instrument of torture invented at the end of the 18th century, the Iron Virgin. Their mascot, Eddie, came from the imagination of designer Derek Riggs.

The group has frequently been accused of Satanism, notably because of the fantastic imagery conveyed or their references to biblical writings such as the Apocalypse7,8 or to those of Aleister Crowley9. The group has however always denied these accusations.

Iron Maiden was formed on Christmas Day in 1975 by bassist Steve Harris, soon joined by Dave Murray, guitarist. During the following two years, the group changed members several times, except Harris and Murray, and played songs influenced by groups like Black Sabbath, UFO, Thin Lizzy or Deep Purple. In 1978, the line-up was stabilized by the arrival of Doug Sampson on drums and singer Paul Di'Anno. The latter brings a more punk attitude although the music is undoubtedly heavy. The group is gaining great popularity in the United Kingdom by browsing all the clubs in the country who agree to hire hard rock bands in the middle of a punk storm. The musicians meet Rod Smallwood, their future manager and "sixth member". In December 1978, the group finally recorded their first demo, Soundhouse Tapes, published in 5000 copies. Thanks to word of mouth, this first recording tears up in a few days. In 1979, Clive Burr replaced Sampson and Dennis Stratton entered the line-up as second guitarist. A few months later, EMI, based on the buzz surrounding the musicians, signed a contract for four albums.